README.md, before:

# xojo_AVW_settings - get runtime settings for xojo

### Author Aaron Wohl https://github.com/avwohl

### Where to find the latest stable version of this file:
[https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings/blob/master/README.md)

### Documentation using git and submodules and these libs in xojo:
[https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_documentation](https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_documentation)

### Download the stable version of this git submodule for settings for xojo:
[https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings](https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings)

## Sample usage
### In the app declarations
`Var settings as AVW_settings_module.AVW_settings`\
Or create a property of type AVW_settings in the application or some other suitable object.

### In the app constructor:
```
settings=New AVW_settings_module.AVW_settings
settings.define("connect_to_host")
settings.define("connect_to_port")
settings.define("connect_timeout_secs")
settings.read_file("my_config.cfg")
// check if any settings are missing from the config
// this is optional, if you leave off the check it won't
// fail until the app tries to fetch a setting that was not set
// using check as it fail at startup time rather than much later
settings.check()
```

### Sample config file my_config.cfg:
```
# a sample comment
connect_to_host:foo.com
# a multi line setting
# note the use of +:
login:clear *
login+:-ch
login+:+ch 1
include:common.cfg
```

### Sample include sub config file common.cfg:
```
# sample included config file included from some other config
connect_to_port:25
connect_time_out_secs:20
```

### Optionally, a defined setting can have a default
`settings.define_default("connect_to_port","25")`
All settings are stored as strings.  Settings fetched by get_integer() convert the setting to an integer to return it.

### If using multi line strings, specify what end of line is used to separate the entries:
`app.settings.set_eol(Chr(10))`
The default separator is currently Chr(10).  Although this module has not been tested on windows yet, it may need a CRLF separator.

### In your program fetch an integer setting:
`Var some_int as integer=app.settings.get_integer("connect_to_port")`

### In your program fetch a string setting:
var some_string as string=app.settings.get_string("connect_to_host")`

### To iterate over all the settings:
Create a subclass of AVW_settings_iterator to do whatever you want to to each setting.  For example to print all settings you might have a subclass with an apply() function to print each setting.
```
Var my_iterator as Some_AVW_settings_iterator=New Some_AVW_settings_iterator
app.settings.for_each_setting(my_iterator)
```

### Errors detected at runtime
The following errors are detected at runtime:
```
A setting defined in the program is missing from the config file.
A setting in a config file is not defined in the program
An IO error occurred reading a config file, no such file for example
At runtime the program asked for a setting that was not set or defined
```

### Error handling
Errors will throw a subclass of RuntimeError. See the sources for classes with names beginning AVW_settings_error*.  Most of the errors are thrown at startup (see the errors above). In a typical console application the usual catchall of catching RuntimeError and printing the mesg field will usually do the job.

Commit message:

update docs use of the word stable

README.md, after:

# xojo_AVW_settings - get runtime settings for xojo

### Author Aaron Wohl https://github.com/avwohl

### Where to find this file:
[https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings/blob/master/README.md)

### Documentation using git and submodules and these libs in xojo:
[https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_documentation](https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_documentation)

### Download this git submodule for settings for xojo:
[https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings](https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_settings)

### Download a utility module this module depends on:
[https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_utils](https://github.com/avwohl/xojo_AVW_utils)

## Sample usage
### In the app declarations
`Var settings as AVW_settings_module.AVW_settings`\
Or create a property of type AVW_settings in the application or some other suitable object.

### In the app constructor:
```
settings=New AVW_settings_module.AVW_settings
settings.define("connect_to_host")
settings.define("connect_to_port")
settings.define("connect_timeout_secs")
settings.read_file("my_config.cfg")
// check if any settings are missing from the config
// this is optional, if you leave off the check it won't
// fail until the app tries to fetch a setting that was not set
// using check as it fail at startup time rather than much later
settings.check()
```

### Sample config file my_config.cfg:
```
# a sample comment
connect_to_host:foo.com
# a multi line setting
# note the use of +:
login:clear *
login+:-ch
login+:+ch 1
include:common.cfg
```

### Sample include sub config file common.cfg:
```
# sample included config file included from some other config
connect_to_port:25
connect_time_out_secs:20
```

### Optionally, a defined setting can have a default
`settings.define_default("connect_to_port","25")`
All settings are stored as strings.  Settings fetched by get_integer() convert the setting to an integer to return it.

### If using multi line strings, specify what end of line is used to separate the entries:
`app.settings.set_eol(Chr(10))`
The default separator is currently Chr(10).  Although this module has not been tested on windows yet, it may need a CRLF separator.

### In your program fetch an integer setting:
`Var some_int as integer=app.settings.get_integer("connect_to_port")`

### In your program fetch a string setting:
var some_string as string=app.settings.get_string("connect_to_host")`

### To iterate over all the settings:
Create a subclass of AVW_settings_iterator to do whatever you want to to each setting.  For example to print all settings you might have a subclass with an apply() function to print each setting.
```
Var my_iterator as Some_AVW_settings_iterator=New Some_AVW_settings_iterator
app.settings.for_each_setting(my_iterator)
```

### Errors detected at runtime
The following errors are detected at runtime:
```
A setting defined in the program is missing from the config file.
A setting in a config file is not defined in the program
An IO error occurred reading a config file, no such file for example
At runtime the program asked for a setting that was not set or defined
```

### Error handling
Errors will throw a subclass of RuntimeError. See the sources for classes with names beginning AVW_settings_error*.  Most of the errors are thrown at startup (see the errors above). In a typical console application the usual catchall of catching RuntimeError and printing the mesg field will usually do the job.
